en/index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: landing-page
show_carousel: true
show_news: true
call_to_action:
  header: The Hogar Invites you to get involved!
  text: The operation of our shelter home for children (the Hogar) is greatly possible
    thanks to grants and donations from institutions such as United Way, government
    agencies, civic organizations, merchants and private companies. However, most
    important is the support of the COMMUNITY, individuals and families that are committed
    to help El Hogar continue its work and make a difference in the lives of its children.
highlights:
  main:
    title: Sponsor a Child
    subtitle: Through fixed monthly donations, <b>YOU</b> could help us defray the
      costs of the services we provide to our children while they reside at the Hogar.
    image: "/uploads/padrinos_program/padrinos.png"
  complementary:
    one:
      title: Donate your Time
      subtitle: We offer many ways for you to get involved with the Hogar and see
        first-hand the results of your efforts and dedication.
    two:
      title: Donate Articles
      subtitle: To learn more about how to donate articles, or to schedule the delivery
        of your donations, contact us by phone at PHONE.
secondary_highlights:
  main:
    title: Prevention of Child Abuse
    subtitle: Beyond its main mission of restoring the emotional, mental and physical
      health of children who have been victims of abuse, the Hogar promotes initiatives
      to educate the community of Puerto Rico about child abuse, and to help eradicate
      this problem over time.
  complementary:
    one:
      title: Contributors
      subtitle: For over two decades, the Hogar has been mainly sustained by the financial
        support of government agencies, private grants and donations, religious and
        civic organizations, corporations, businesses, and residents of the City of
        Mayagüez and surrounding towns.
    two:
      title: History
      subtitle: The Hogar Albergue para Niños Jesús de Nazaret has been providing
        love, services, and a better future to boys and girls who have been victims
        of abuse or neglect for over twenty years.
news:
  title: Recent News
lang: en
lang_ref: home-page

---

Commit message:

Adding job posting to English site

en/index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: landing-page
show_carousel: true
show_news: true
call_to_action:
  header: The Hogar Invites you to get involved!
  text: The operation of our shelter home for children (the Hogar) is greatly possible
    thanks to grants and donations from institutions such as United Way, government
    agencies, civic organizations, merchants and private companies. However, most
    important is the support of the COMMUNITY, individuals and families that are committed
    to help El Hogar continue its work and make a difference in the lives of its children.
show_job_banner: true
job_banner:
  title: Job Opportunity!
  message: The Hogar Albergue para Niños Jesús de Nazaret, Inc. invites you to be part of our team to provide loving care to our children as a Child Caregiver.
  action_text: For more details, read here
  action_url: '/uploads/jobs/2021/caregiver_posting.pdf'
highlights:
  main:
    title: Sponsor a Child
    subtitle: Through fixed monthly donations, <b>YOU</b> could help us defray the
      costs of the services we provide to our children while they reside at the Hogar.
    image: "/uploads/padrinos_program/padrinos.png"
  complementary:
    one:
      title: Donate your Time
      subtitle: We offer many ways for you to get involved with the Hogar and see
        first-hand the results of your efforts and dedication.
    two:
      title: Donate Articles
      subtitle: To learn more about how to donate articles, or to schedule the delivery
        of your donations, contact us by phone at PHONE.
secondary_highlights:
  main:
    title: Prevention of Child Abuse
    subtitle: Beyond its main mission of restoring the emotional, mental and physical
      health of children who have been victims of abuse, the Hogar promotes initiatives
      to educate the community of Puerto Rico about child abuse, and to help eradicate
      this problem over time.
  complementary:
    one:
      title: Contributors
      subtitle: For over two decades, the Hogar has been mainly sustained by the financial
        support of government agencies, private grants and donations, religious and
        civic organizations, corporations, businesses, and residents of the City of
        Mayagüez and surrounding towns.
    two:
      title: History
      subtitle: The Hogar Albergue para Niños Jesús de Nazaret has been providing
        love, services, and a better future to boys and girls who have been victims
        of abuse or neglect for over twenty years.
news:
  title: Recent News
lang: en
lang_ref: home-page

---
